---
title: Starting a new project
date: 2020-07-07 00:00:00
description: My process for starting a new project
featured_image: '/images/blog_post_1-new_projects.jpg'
---

# Starting a new project


When staring a new design project always aim to do the least amount of work possible, as bill gates once said:

 “I will always choose a lazy person to do a difficult job because a lazy person will find an easy way to do it.”

## Design flows not screens
Most designers start the process by trying to design a full app, this is always a mistake, as you will end up making too many assumptions and may even take the project in the wrong direction. Instead aim to design the app by creating full visualisations of a user completing a task. 

This may be someone ordering your product from a landing page or a user using your dashboard to visualise some data. Either way the difference here is that you will end up focusing and iterating on the most important parts of the project first.

## Design black grayscale first

Another great tip to use in your workflow is to design in grayscale first. Using colour is a really quick way of directing user attention and making something look good. Instead by relying on shades of grey you’ll be forced to use layout, hierarchy, alignment and flow to achieve your goals. 

## Fail fast

I know you’ve probably heard this a countless times before, but I’ll repeat it as its important. You must find a way you can fail fast, instead of spending time making pixel perfect mockups at each stage, use whatever tool you’re most comfortable with to create quick mockups you can discuss with your team, or use for reference. That way before committing design time you’ll be sure it’s committed to an important goal.
















